Hello and welcome to part three of the blog 10 course today we're starting our exciting journey into
the world of is the dream project that's been around for several years now and that is massively transforming
the world one step at a time.
So this is going to be a troll just introduced where it came from and what the general idea behind it
is and then we'll start diving more into things like smart contracts walk chain projects I suppose and
how the theory works and so on.
Further down the section.
So let's have a look.
Where did that theory come from.
If there is a project that was created by Vitale's with Teron who is currently in 2018 only twenty four
years old and when he created the project was in 2013.
So that's five years ago he was 19 years old when he came up the idea and we'll discuss this a bit more
in a bit more detail but in general Vitalii wanted like a scripting language a way to create programs
for Bitcoin.
And he didn't have that agreement from the community to do that or not.
Nobody really wanted to create a scripting language.
And we'll talk again we'll talk more about that down the track.
And so he went along and created his own project theorem which has grown into a giant behemoth that
it is now.
And like most CEOs and most new block projects are actually built on top of here.
So having said that Bitcoin and the theorem actually friends there is even an image like this and while
your friends will because they both exist in the protocol of going there and they have kind of different
purposes.
So the purpose of bitcoin is to just create a crypto currency that will disrupt your bags and allow
us to tray other transfer money borderless and permission lessly.
So because this is here and it doesn't really it's not the intention is not to create a platform for
others to create projects on top of it.
Whereas in theory that's the whole design that the theorem is actually not designed as a criticality
design as a platform for others to build on top of others to create programs in them.
So let's go into that a bit more detail what what what does this whole idea behind the protocol that
is a theory.
So the main underlying idea is that we are all interconnected.
There we are we we have the Internet which connects people together and so on.
So how about we build a blockade.
And we'll talk about what these smart contracts are and a bit more detail then try to build a block
chain that not only allows us to store transactional data but actually allows us to store programs that
allow facilitates the execution of programs.
And that way we can decentralize any application that we built and how in a decentralized way we're
going to run it.
Well we're going to run it on the computers of the people that are part of that block chain.
So what if we could instead of like launching an application for instance like Facebook on a server
and then everybody having to go to that server and communicate with it and store their data.
What if we could run Facebook on everybody's computer at the same time.
And like not Facebook but like an alternative to that way it's completely decentralized.
So the idea here and again we'll talk about this in more detail throughout the session but the core
idea here is to build a world super computer in a distributed manner and use blotching to facilitate
that.
So the world supercomputer won't be like a in one location or one very strong computer or one very paralyzing
you know it will be all of our laptops connected together working to execute apps and programs and you
know do things in this environment.
And all of that will be facilitate through watching where the programs will be described where all of
the transactions will be stored where any changes will be recorded and they will be in an immutable
manner and in a copy of that blotching will of course reside on every single computer as well so everybody
will have a copy of the wash.
And as we discussed before.
So that's the idea.
The idea of with theorem is actually degraded like the world's biggest supercomputer that will be able
to decentralize any application if you want to build the decentralized because you just go to a theorem
and you build it on top of that.
And so the infrastructure is already there.
That is how it theory is shaping and transforming the world.
So there is a quick taste for what is coming ahead.
So you can see it's a very different product.
They also use boxings is very different to Bitcoin and that and this is where all the development work
comes in.
This is where we are able to create programs and so on and finally we've gotten to this day it was necessary
for us to go through Paswan and to understand everything how everything works in box.
And finally we hear we're going to dive further into this in the coming tutorials.
Very excited about that.
And in the meantime if you'd like to get some additional information on lithium in an article I can
recommend is called What is the theory in the ultimate Beginner's Guide by Alex Moscow.
And locates located on coring Central.
So there we go.
That's what it is in a natural and you world supercomputer.
And come away to dive straight into it in the points totals until next engine.